---
title: "Abstracts"
permalink: /abstracts.html
layout: single
classes: wide
toc: true
sidebar:
    - nav: sitemap
    - nav: contact

---

<!--
    Script for Latex, copied from https://www.sarpublisher.com/how-to-enable-latex-in-blogger/
    Remember change the http in src to https, or your browser may refuse to load it.
    Offical docs of MathJax can be found under https://docs.mathjax.org/en/v2.7-latest/configuration.html#configuring-mathjax
    Under default setting, all formulas are too large. I added `scale: 80` under "HTML-CSS" to fix this.
-->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js">
    MathJax.Hub.Config({
        extensions: ["tex2jax.js","TeX/AMSmath.js","TeX/AMSsymbols.js"],
        jax: ["input/TeX", "output/HTML-CSS"],
        tex2jax: {
            inlineMath: [ ['$','$'], ["\\(","\\)"] ],
            displayMath: [ ['$$','$$'], ["\\[","\\]"] ],
        },
        "HTML-CSS": {availableFonts: ["TeX"], scale: 80}
    });
</script>




## Sensitivity of BPS microstates by Sean Colin-Ellerin

A key signature of chaos in quantum chaotic systems is the random matrix behavior in the repulsion of energy levels. Since black holes are expected to be highly chaotic, their energy levels should exhibit such behavior. However, this cannot be true for BPS black holes as the energies of all of their microstates are fixed to be equal by the BPS bound. I will present a new diagnostic of chaos for BPS black holes, namely the sensitivity of their microstates to the couplings of the theory. This sensitivity can be detected by the mixing matrix for this degenerate subspace as one moves on moduli space, known as the Berry curvature. I will show that for fortuitous states in the N=2 supersymmetric SYK model and N=2 JT gravity, which are toy models for the black hole microstates, the Berry curvature has random matrix statistics. On the other hand, for the monotonous states dual to smooth, horizonless supergravity solutions, I will show in many different examples that the curvature is not chaotic at all.

## Secondary Invariants, trace relations and fermions by Robert de Mello Koch

We argue that the space of invariants of multi-matrix model quantum mechanics, at finite $N$, is generated by a set of invariants, naturally divided into two distinct classes: primary and secondary. The primary invariants act freely, while secondary invariants satisfy quadratic relations. We argue that the primary invariants correspond to perturbative degrees of freedom, whereas the secondary invariants emerge as non-trivial background structures. The number of primary invariants for a model with d matrices is given by $1+(d-1)N^2$. The number of secondary invariants grows as $e^{cN^2}$ at large, with $c$ a constant. Finally, we identify a class of light single-trace operators that behave like free creation operators at low energy but saturate beyond a critical excitation level, ceasing to generate new states. This leads to a dramatic truncation of the high-energy spectrum of the emergent theory. The resulting number of independent degrees of freedom is far smaller than naïve semiclassical expectations, providing a concrete mechanism for how nonperturbative constraints shape the ultraviolet behaviour of emergent theories. Finally we argue that for bosonic vector models the set of bosonic secondary invariants are mapped, one-to-one, to the states of a fermionic bilinear color-singlet Hilbert space. We describe how the trace relations in the two descriptions are related.


## Polar states in AdS3 quantum gravity by Ji Hoon Lee

TBA


## Perturbative Hilbert space of closed universe by Masamichi Miyaji

We construct Hilbert space of AdS and dS JT Lorentzian closed universes. By performing exact gravitational path-integral, we evaluate gauge-fixed matrix elements in cylinder geometry and identify physical Hilbert space and derive the gauge-fixed Wheeler de-Witt equation. The physical Hilbert space we identify takes the form of group averaging giving un-factorized resolution of identity. We discuss roles played by the path-integral measure, distinction between large/small diffeomorphism in matrix elements, choice of gauge fixing, and possible resolution for the discrepancy in WdW equations in the literatures. 


## Quantum Chaos and Fermionic 3D Gravity by Elisa Tabor

We introduce a theory of pure fermionic 3D gravity with negative cosmological constant. We compute the partition function with torus boundary for all possible spin structures. Combining modular invariance under different congruence subgroups with random matrix statistics, we construct Euclidean fermionic two-boundary wormholes, which are topologically a torus times an interval. These contain information about the spectral correlations between black hole microstates in the presence of fermions, and after analytic continuation to Lorentzian signature, they exhibit the expected late time ramp that is characteristic of random matrix universality. Finally, we generalize these wormholes to the case where the boundary CFT has various discrete symmetries. Based on upcoming work with Jan Boruch and G. Joaquin Turiaci.


## Cusps in 3d gravity by Cynthia Yan

Three dimensional hyperbolic manifolds have accumulation points in the spectrum of their volumes, leading to a divergence in the sum over topologies. The limit points are cusped hyperbolic manifolds, and we propose to renormalize the sum by including the cusped manifold as a counterterm. This gives a reinterpretation of the zeta-function regularization procedure used by Maloney and Witten in the sum over SL(2, Z) black holes. For pure N=1 supergravity, cusps with even spin structure can be used in a similar way. Cusps with odd spin structure are not needed to cancel any divergence, but they find an application by making the index nonzero.


## A review of Virasoro TQFT and some new understandings by Mengyang Zhang

In the first part of this talk, I will review the construction of Virasoro TQFT from the Chern–Simons formulation of pure $AdS_3$ gravity and its application to the statistics of two-dimensional holographic CFT data. I will then discuss the extension to three-dimensional de Sitter gravity and its relation to the double-scaled SYK model. In the second part, I will address the issue of topological invariance in Virasoro TQFT. Despite being “topological,” its partition function is not well-defined on arbitrary three-manifolds, distinguishing it from conventional Reshetikhin–Turaev–Witten TQFTs. I will explain how far the standard proofs of topological invariance can be generalized and comment on possible extensions beyond hyperbolic manifolds.


## The Bootstrap Method in matrix theories by Zechuan Zheng

The bootstrap method offers a powerful framework for solving theoretical models by systematically solving the optimization problem from the constraints imposed by kinematic and dynamic equalities and inequalities. This approach has demonstrated remarkable efficacy in tackling matrix models, especially in the large $N$ limit and in scenarios complicated by sign problems. In this presentation, we review the application of the bootstrap method across diverse models, with a particular emphasis on its implementation in the BFSS model, highlighting its potential to address longstanding challenges in this context.




















